High in this video we're going to continue our look at keyword arguments.
So let's jump straight into the code and just as a reminder let's look at a function that takes into
three positional parameters and all we're going to do is just print a b and c..
So now we can call this function by using positional arguments which can cause one common to come at
three and you can see that we have a was one B was two and C was three.
But of course as a color we have the option of using named or keyword arguments when we call this function.
So we could say phunk one and we could start with one that would be a big.
But then if we want we can say C equals three.
And of course remember that once we start using named arguments we have to continue using named arguments
or in this case I would have to specify and say be equals.
And this code will make it equal to two.
And we'll get the same thing.
You can specify all three of them if you want.
And so if a equals one actually that's stuck with C all three be equals to and equals one if we want.
Then again the order is not mandatory Since Python will map based on the name of the argument and the
name of the parameter in the function definition but the key here is that it is up to the caller to
decide whether they want to use a named argument or a keyword argument or not.
We can however force this by using the Star args.
If you remember from the last video our code that we had on the last section if we do a comma B comma
start on comedy.
Well Star args exhausts right.
So again for this one very quick reminder we do this we can print a of the combat arms and we can call
phunk one with one comma to comma three come fall for example.
And you'll notice that a was one B was two and then was the remainder.
Right.
Kind of scooped up every other positional argument that was defined here.
But we can continue doing this and we have stuff.
And then let's define another parameter and then we'll just print a comma B comma hounds in comedy and
if we call the function we can try calling it with one commet to Carmer three of four we want that to
go into z and then we want D.
So let's say we specify five but if we do that we'll get an error.
And the error is because well Stahr arms says scoop up all the positional parameters and so we did.
And guess what it scooped up three four and five.
And so it didn't find D.
So we have to somehow tell Python No no.
5 is D and the only way to do that is now to use a keyword argument a name argument.
So we have to do this.
So this is how we can for someone who's calling our function to use a named argument and if we do that
then indeed we get what we expected one to 4 A and B respectively three 4 for the top all and 5 goes
into deep.
Now we can even go ahead and do something where we don't have mandatory optional parameters because
here it is mandatory.
Right.
So we can do this.
There funk one stop just wave style arms and then deep.
So D is still going to be a mandatory keyword argument but here.
Notice that we just say Star arms and what this means is hey just you know if you want to call this
function using one or zero or more positional parameters go for it and all that's going to happen is
that it's going to scoop up all of them toss them into the arms table and then it's going to look for
the keyword argument deep.
So here we can call phunk 1 passing one coming to come three for example and then let's say we'll make
equal to 8 in this case.
And so we get one to three went into the arms tuple and D was equal to eight.
But of course that means that we can also call it this way we don't have to specify any positional parameters
any positional arguments because well we don't need them.
So in this case that works equally well D is equal to a and b aren't tuple is empty as we expected.
Sometimes we want to actually create a function in such a way that no positional parameters are allowed
and we can do that quite simply by using the stuff by itself without using a star or Stasi or whatever
you want for the variable name.
And we just use a stuff and then we specify our keyword argument after that.
So this stuff basically says hey this is the end of all positional parameters.
After that everything is going to be keyword.
So in this case we'll just print out and let's see how we might call this function.
Maybe we want to say hey let's pass in a couple of you know positional parameters.
The star is there maybe to scoop them up and discount them.
Maybe that's how it works.
And then of course we have D which has to be passed as a keyword.
So let's go ahead and set it to 100.
But if we do that you'll notice that we get this error.
Fung takes zero positional arguments.
It doesn't have any positional arguments.
This stuff here doesn't scoop up the positional arguments and tossed them away.
It says No no I don't want any I don't want to see any positional arguments after this point.
But we gave it to.
So it complains.
So the only way to rectify this is not to provide any positional arguments.
If we do that then everything was just fine.
Now of course sometimes you want to mix that up a little bit.
You may want to say well I want to function which is going to take two positional parameters it's going
to have no more than two.
And then I want a keyword parameters.
So here we go.
And then let's go ahead and print a comma be comedy.
So when we call the function we can now call it with 1 and 2 positional parameters.
If we try and call of additional positional parameters Let's try that let's pass 3 and then let's specify
D as maybe 4 but if we do that you'll notice that Python now says on this function takes two positional
arguments but three were given Yeah I gave it three.
It only expected to.
So that's a problem with his rectified this by not passing in more than two.
And so there we go and we get 1 2 and 4 and a B and D respectively.
Which is exactly what we were hoping to get.
Now default values we know that we can use default values for positional parameters while we can use
default values for keyword parameters as well.
So this is where things kind of start getting really interesting.
So let's find again function.
Let's say we have 8 which is going to be just a positional keyword or a positional sorry argument that
will have no default then we're going to specify beb.
We will give it a default.
Let's give it a default of two.
So in this case what's happening is that if we are called if you leave it at that and call try and call
this function then we could specify just a.
So we only would need one positional argument to call the function.
And if we didn't tried to then be would default to 2.
Additionally we can now say well we have some additional arguments.
OK.
We'll see if that works.
And then we have a keyword argument and let's go ahead and just print a comma.
The comma.
It's a comedy.
So let's try and call the function.
Let's say we say OK we have a we have B which will make Well they will be one.
May be equal to 5.
Then we'll put in a couple more positional arguments three and four and then we'll find be specified
as a.
And that works correctly.
We have 1 5 3 4.
You will notice here that even though we have a default value.
Remember we said that once you start creating parameters with default values you always have to have
default values for the other ones that come after that for the position.
You don't have to do it when you're using star arms.
So hopefully you had some raised eyebrows when we wrote this but rest assured it works correctly.
So let's continue doing this a little bit.
Let's provide Now some default values for the keyword parameters as well which we can do.
So we can say is that a b is 20.
We can do that.
And we'll take the we'll default that to zero.
And we could put e.
Now it's a little bit different with the default values for the keyword arguments and the position calls.
Once we start defining a default value for a positional argument every other named positional argument
after that needs a default value too not the case where the keyword arguments because remember we're
going to be specifying them using keywords using names.
So it doesn't matter.
So we don't need it so we can leave it at that if we want to.
Or you can specify a default verb.
And I'll just leave it as far as that.
Now if I don't supply a default value for me that means that e is now a mandatory keyword argument right.
If I don't specify a value for that so let's go ahead and let's print a comma B.
Come on comedy come at E.
So that's our function.
So now I can call the function specifying maybe 5 4 for a and b then maybe 3 and 2 and one for the pile.
Let d be equal to zero so I'm not going to specify D and I'm not going to specify either how that's
going to fail to run because he is required.
It's a required key word only argument.
So I have to specify the form I make be equals.
All engines running.
And so what we get now is that five and four went into A and B three to one went into a three to one.
We didn't specify D.
Right.
When we called the function.
So it's going to have a default of 0.
And then we specify that all engines running.
So there we go.
Five four three two one zero.
All engines running OK.
Course we can do other things too.
So we can call the function let's call it we have 0 600 let's say for B then D.
So I'm not going to skip the ads altogether.
That's it for the positional arguments.
And now I'm just going to go and specify values for D and E.
Now note that these default is 0.
But it doesn't mean that D has to be an integer.
It can be anything.
Remember we're not statically typed in Python so we could be you know good morning i can spell it right.
We have.
Good morning and maybe we will say Python.
So when we run this we get oh 600 Good morning Python right.
The 0 0 basically went into a.
The 600 went into B.
Good morning.
Went into D.
We didn't have any additional positional arguments so it's just an empty table.
And then Python went into Iraq.
We can also do the following.
Again as I said we don't have to stick to you know it's not because we have a and b equals 20 that B
has to be an integer and it can be anything.
So we can also call it this way we could say fonk 11.
And then for B we can make it a string that's fine.
So 11 Cleetus a second.
And for the star aren't going to provide two more.
And again they don't have to be homogeneous types.
So the first argument could be 24.
Right.
Of the stars of the basically the additional positional arguments and then we'll do mph right as the
next one.
And then D we can make that into a string maybe on Laden and we will make that equal to swallow.
And so when we run this we get 11 B was miles per second meters per second.
The Astar.
The parameter became the tuple with 24 mph and then D was unladen and e was swell.
All right so that's kind of putting everything together.
So so far we've seen how to create positional arguments how to have optional positional arguments by
specifying basically a default value.
We've looked at how to scoop up extra positional arguments so in any number of variable number of them
using the star approach we've seen how to stop taking in extra positional arguments using the Star just
by itself.
And that also allows us to specify functions where we didn't have any positional arguments and then
we saw how to specify keyword arguments and keyword arguments that became either mandatory or optional
depending on whether they had a default value or not.
So we've almost got everything covered were functions.
We're still missing one piece.
If you think about positional versus keyword arguments when we're looking at positional arguments we
have a way to scoop up an arbitrary number of positional arguments.
What we haven't seen so far is is there a way to scoop up an arbitrary number of keyword arguments.
And the answer of course is yes.
This is Python after all.
It's extremely flexible.
So the answer is yes.
And that's in the next video coming right up.
So thanks for watching and I'll see you in a bit.